[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hi, I'm Dr. Theresa Bullard,
host of "Mystery Teachings."
And today we're
going to meditate
on the archetypes of the Hermit
and the Wheel of Fortune.
Together, they help us to come
to trust our inner guidance
and to hear the call of destiny.
The Hermit helps us to tap into
the wisdom and illumination
of our higher self
through deep meditation,
while the Wheel forms
a portal or a gateway
to ascension that sets us
on the path of expansion
towards our higher purpose.
Well, let's now explore
some practical things
to do to work with both
these archetypes, the Hermit
and the Wheel.
We're going to work with our
typical meditation formula
that we can use to invoke
these archetypes into our life.
So we'll begin with
one card at a time,
starting with the Hermit.
Once you're ready, find the
Hermit card in your deck
and take it out.
Place the card in front of
you somewhere at eye level.
So if you have your
meditation stool or cushion,
you can sit on that
in front of a table
and place the card
upright on the table.
Get yourself into a relaxed
position in a light meditative
state.
Take several deep breaths.
Relax your body.
And begin to empty your
mind and bring yourself
into a neutral or
a positive state
so that you feel at peace,
no things disturbing you,
either mentally or
emotionally, and you're
ready for a new experience.
Once your body and your
mind relax and quiet down,
then open your eyes
and look at the image
of the Hermit for about five to
10 minutes with your eyes open.
Study its imagery,
its symbolism.
Take in all the details
and also its simplicity.
Really ingrain this
imagery into your mind.
As you study the imagery,
consider all of its meaning.
I'll remain silent now
for the next five minutes
as we now meditate on the
symbolism of the card.
Take it now inside and work with
it in your mind for another 10
minutes with your eyes closed.
Really build this image
up within your mind,
repeating and recreating all
the details of the Hermit,
imagining that the
frame of the card
is like a door and the
Hermit is on the other side
on that mountain peak.
And really build
up those details
and see that imagery before you.
Really allow yourself to
sink into this process.
And really impress this
imagery upon your subconscious
as you meditate with the Hermit.
Once the image is firmly
established in your mind,
let it come to life.
Imagine that that
doorway is now something
that you are walking through.
And as you walk
to the other side,
it takes on a three-dimensional
virtual reality
type of imagery and setting.
And allow the Hermit
to come to life.
Just observe the
Hermit for a while.
Notice his way of being.
He might have a message.
Just receive that.
And feel the energy that
the Hermit emanates.
See the light that
shines out of his lamp.
Notice how balanced the Hermit
is and how much of a connection
is established between
above and below,
between the eternal
and the physical.
Once you feel firmly
connected to and established
with this energy, next you're
going to merge with the Hermit.
Become the Hermit.
See and feel him come
alive within you.
You are the Hermit.
Taking on all of his qualities
of wisdom and attainment,
remembering that this is your
inner guide or higher self
you're connecting to.
And when you feel
integrated with this energy,
you're going to stand
up and actually take
on the posture of the Hermit.
Assume his archetypal
form and body positioning.
You're holding the staff
with your left hand
and the lantern with
your right hand,
and the head is slightly bowed.
From this position, you're
going to say the affirmation--
I am the prophet of the
eternal and the magus
of the voice of power.
I am one with the
universal will.
I am.
Feel those words
reverberating within you
and activating
within yourselves.
And really integrate this
energy of the Hermit.
And then when
you're ready, we're
going to move on to doing the
same process with the Wheel
card.
So find your Wheel card.
Place it in the
position where you
can look at it at eye level.
Sit in your meditation
stool or position.
And begin to study the
Wheel with your eyes
open for five to 10
minutes, meditating upon it,
taking in all of its
details, studying
all the different aspects.
There's a lot going on
here with the Wheel card.
Really take your time memorizing
the imagery and the symbolism
of this card while also
contemplating the meaning
of each of the symbols.
Once you feel like you've
really got the imagery,
you're going to close your
eyes and take this image inside
and work with it in your inner
mind with your eyes closed
for 10 minutes.
Really build up and
recreate the imagery inside,
all the details, all the colors,
all the symbols going on here
with the Wheel, first allowing
it to just be a static image,
and the frame of a card
becomes like a door.
And on the other
side of that door,
you see the imagery
of the Wheel.
Once you've built up this
energy and this imagery,
then you're going to
let it come to life.
You're going to move through
the doorway into the scene.
Let it take on a
three-dimensional experience
around you.
And let all these characters
of the Wheel come to life.
Watch as the Wheel
spins and rotates
and the various cycles
of transformation
and transmutation happen.
Observe the Wheel.
Observe all the characters
and what they're going through
and how they're expressing.
Feel the energy of the Wheel.
Notice, especially, the
Sphinx and its way of being.
And you might even
receive a message.
Just take in and allow
yourself to receive all
that this card has
to offer to you.
And then when you feel
connected to this energy
of the card of the
Wheel, now you're
going to merge with the Wheel.
Become the Wheel.
Feel its cycles, its movement.
But also take yourself into
the position of the Sphinx
and feel that eternal
being, your true self
that the Sphinx represents.
It stands above and beyond
the Wheel and its cycles.
And yet it also controls
the cycles of the Wheel.
Then, when you feel
integrated with this energy,
sit up in a chair
and actually take
on that posture of the Sphinx.
Assume its archetypal form.
Imagine that you're
holding a sword
in your left hand, which is
resting on your left shoulder.
You visualize that
Wheel spinning
below you, which is
spinning clockwise
from your perspective.
From this position
of the Sphinx,
you're observing those cycles
of involution and evolution,
the descending
and the ascending,
the flux and the reflux, the
cycles of cause and effect.
Also, connect to the four
fixed points around you
that are anchored by the
four holy living creatures
or the angelic beings.
And feel the contrast
between the rotation
of the Wheel and the
eternal being that just is.
Once you feel this merging
and this connection,
say this affirmation--
I am the lord of
the forces of life.
I am the cycle of life.
Every effect has its cause,
every cause its effect.
Feel those words reverberate
throughout your being,
activating the atoms and
the cells of your body
and integrating more
fully within you.
And then when you
feel complete, we're
going to now work with both
the Hermit and the Wheel cards
together.
So place them next
to each other,
and we're going to
meditate upon them together
with the Hermit on the left
and the Wheel on the right.
As you meditate upon
them and observe them,
notice how they contrast
with each other.
Notice, also, how
they complement
each other and what
kind of connections
there might be between
these two cards.
The Hermit simulates your
inner guide and the ability
to know thyself, while the
Wheel stimulates change
and the cycles of destiny.
Finally, we want to
take these energies
and express them into our outer
life so that they can manifest.
So ways to do this would include
bringing the primary colors
of gray and purple
into your environment
or the color of your clothing.
Meditate upon the
symbols and the images
daily for the next week and keep
working with these affirmations
that we just used.
Also, contemplate the
meaning of each card
and how it applies
into your life.
Really watch for
those archetypes
to appear in your life during
synchronicities as well
as in your dreams and
really analyze any messages
that they might be
delivering to you.
And pay attention
especially to how
you embody the strengths and
the weaknesses of each one.
And then consciously
work to make improvements
in these areas.
Remember, again, that
when we're working
with archetypes like
this, they will set forces
in motion in our life.
They will catalyze
that alchemy for us.
So we really want
to pay attention.
And if we're going
to engage with this
in an experiential
way, then really
commit to seeing it all the way
through, doing each key step
by step in the order given
as we go through this series,
and really give it
your full attention.
By actively engaging with
these symbols, with each key,
we are using them
as doorways or tools
for communication
to our true self.
And it will continue.
The further we
go, the more these
are going to awaken
within your psyche.
Now, remember to keep
track of your insights,
your dreams, any energies that
get set in motion in your life.
Really just observe and
notice what happens.
And notice what you
learn about yourself,
and write these things down
throughout the journey.
And to really get
the most out of this,
put those tools
into application.
Journal your reflections.
And remember to really tune into
the feeling and the experience
of these energies in your life.
Working with these archetypes is
going to reorganize and rewire
our brain.
And over time, it even begins
to rewire and reorganize
our soul body.
The more we become aware
of these archetypes,
the more we will
consciously begin
to perceive them at work in our
lives and in our relationships.
And then this process
is energizing us
at an atomic level,
at a cellular level,
creating that magical
body step by step,
building it up so that we can
become more conscious versions
of ourselves.
And through it, we can
manifest our full potential
and our multidimensional being.
Join me again as
we explore further
into the 22 archetypes
of Tarot and how
they can help us to make our
big shift in consciousness.